# International Defense Korp (I.D.K.)

## Introduction:
I.D.K., standing for International Defense Korp, is an arcade game where players compete to take control of the territory on a generated grid. The player who has captured the most territory (either after a certain number of turns or after a majority of the possible area has been captured) at the end of the game wins. As such, the primary objective of the game, regardless of the game mode, is to capture as much territory (as many ‘blocks’) as possible before running out of turns. There are multiple approaches that players can take in order to accomplish this goal, either by maximizing the territory owned by the player or by minimizing the territory owned by the opponent (in this case, an AI).

## Design:
The game's design documentation can be found [here](DESIGN.md).

## Starting the game:
In order to start playing the game, the player must enter the following command into the terminal: java Main.java. Running the command will start the game and take the player to the Home Screen of the game where the player will see three different choices. If the player cannot see all three options or if the home screen is not properly visible to the player, it might be necessary to resize the window in which the home screen is being displayed – this holds true at all points in the game: if the playing window is cut-off or otherwise improperly contorted, the player can simply resize the window by dragging the desired corner of the window to resize the window. The three game modes (represented by the three buttons on the Home Screen) that the player can choose from are as follows: Standard Mode, Random Mode, and Custom Mode.

## Modes:

1. In Standard mode, players will battle on a 14 X 14 grid with NO obstacles and a one-block-wide boundary on each border. Power-ups will be randomly placed on the grid. In standard mode, players will NOT be able to capture the opponent’s territory but will be able to move within their own territory. Since players are not allowed to take opponent territory in this particular game mode, there is a chance that either the player or the opponent gets boxed into a certain region out of which they cannot escape – as such, the player should make every attempt possible to avoid such a situation.

2. In Random mode, the grid on which the players battle will be generated randomly: as such, every time a player plays in random mode, he/she will come across an entirely different grid with a randomized size. Just like the standard grid, the locations of the power-ups will be randomized across the possible playing area. Unlike the standard grid, however, which only allows the players to battle in a 14 X 14 square grid, the randomized grid will allow the players to battle in a completely randomized playing area. Furthermore, unlike the standard grid, the random grid will also have forbidden regions (black blocks) whose locations are generated randomly. As such, there will be no set playing area in random mode: every time the player opens random mode, he/she will come across an entirely new playing area with its unique advantages and challenges. In spite of all the differences, the objective of the game remains unchanged: the player still has to capture the most territory possible in the specified number of turns (which will now vary based on the size of the randomly generated map). In random mode, players WILL be able to capture the opponent’s territory as well as move within their own territory.

3. Custom mode, the third possible mode, allows the users to borrow aspects from both standard and random modes to create a customized game mode. Clicking on the ‘Custom’ button on the Home Screen will take players to a new screen where they will see a number of choices that they will have to make. The first choice players will have to make is whether or not they wish to enable hostile takeover: the ability to conquer the opponent’s territory. The second choice players will make relates to the type of grid which they wish to play on – players can choose between a standard grid (as can be found in standard mode) or a randomized grid (as is generated during random mode). Players will also then go on to specify the height and width of the grid they wish to play on. When entering the height and width, players should keep in mind they are entering the largest possible playing area – if they have selected the random-style grid, the actual playing area will be less than the height and width they enter on the Custom screen. Player entries for both the height and width should strictly be whole-number integers; any other input will result in an error message being displayed and users will have to re-enter all of their choices. The maximum possible height the player can enter is 100, and the maximum possible width the player can enter is 100. After choosing their desired height and width, players choose the number of turns for the customized game – just as with height and width, the user entry should be a whole integer number greater than or equal to 0. There is no upper limit to the number of turns a player can choose, although we encourage players to be reasonable with their choices. Players will then choose whether or not they wish to enable power-ups for the game, and will then go on to enter the percentage of the playing area which they want to be power-ups – as such, the entry for the power-up frequency should consist of a number between 0 and 100; anything higher or lower will cause an error message. After making all the necessary choices, the player should press the ‘Play’ button at the top of the window to start playing.

## Playing the game:
In order to capture territory, the user has to click one of the four buttons present at the bottom right corner of the frame. The four buttons represent the directions in which a player can move: up, down, left, and right. Generally, a move is considered valid if the player is moving into an empty block (white), onto his/her own territory (cyan for p1, pink for p2), or a powerup(green). Depending on the game mode, a valid move might also be moving onto the opponent’s territory. If at any point, the user makes an invalid move, their position on the grid will not change, nor will the number of turns left or the number of blocks captured. The user can keep track of the number of turns left by looking at the part of the screen right above the four buttons, which displays the number of turns the user has left, the number of kingdoms (blocks) the player has captured, as well as the number of kingdoms the opponent has captured. Once the number of turns left is 0, the region above the four buttons will also display which player has won or whether the battle ended in a tie.

The position of the player – at all times in the game – will be highlighted in blue, while the position of the opponent will always be highlighted in red. The area that is subsequently captured by the player will be colored in a lighter shade of blue than the player’s current position, while the area captured by the opponent will be colored in a lighter shade of red than the opponent’s current position. The white blocks on the grid represent areas that players can capture, while black blocks represent areas that neither the player nor the AI can capture. Blocks that are green in color represent power-ups that both the player and opponent can utilize to accelerate their capturing process. There are 6 power-ups available in the game: 1. capture a random square (might not gain a square if a black space is randomly chosen), 2-5.capture all squares in a random direction (up, down, left, or right) until a player or wall is reached, and 6. capture all squares in all 4 directions until a player or wall is reached.

## Going back:
For each of the screens that players may find themselves on, a ‘Back’ button can be found at the top-right corner of the screen (when playing the actual game) or at the top of the screen (when making a customized game). Clicking on the back button will take the player to the previous screen. Players should take note, however, that pressing the back button will mean that their progress on the game in progress will NOT be saved and they will be redirected to the Home Screen – subsequently choosing a game mode will result in the start of a new game with a fresh grid. After players finish playing the game, they can end the game by clicking on the ‘x’ button located at the top right of the frame.